------
-Ping Mike Nelson about whether he wants in (recheck if email arrived from him)
-Forward JCDL compliments to psb, cruse, dang,  ... after
------
---------
Hi Jon,

XXX google jon mason articles to check out his latest thinking
I'm embarrassed to say that I about to ask for your help, in preparation
for which I discovered your email from last XXX to the ERC list.
(I subsequently found your email next to a few other gems that had been
diverted to my spam box during a frantic week when I suspect that I'd
been tinkering with my email filter settings.)  Please accept my
sincere apologies.

Apropos your email, what I wanted to ask your help in was in writing or
at least carefully reviewing the next ERC specification.  I really value
your thinking and opinions and believe that your help would improve the
specification greatly.

Your points xxx and yyyy ... can be addressed in this draft.

-John

---------
All,

I'd like to respond to the latest NAAN request with some sort of policy,
so I've taken a stab at drafting one.  Please let me know what you think.

Also what do you think about "pre-dating" the posted policy (assuming
we do post it on the website) by about six months?

Thanks,

-John

------------------
		DRAFT -- NAAN Registration Policy -- DRAFT
			24 January 2006

XXXXXXX give Portico and BnF first crack at being n2r.org nodes

The NAAN is designed to be one part of a strategy for persistent object
naming.  Impersistence in names is due mostly to factors having little
to do with the string of characters assigned to an object, such as loss
of funding, natural disaster, politics, and social upheaval.  The NAAN
can be used to avoid some of the few known naming factors that
contribute to impersistence.


| Definitions

A name is a character string (sequence) associated with an object.
An NAA (Name Assigning Authority) is an organization that assigns
names, such as a national archive or a university.
A NAAN (NAA Number) is a five-digit number assigned to an NAA;
for example, 13030 is assigned to the California Digital Library.
An NAA's name space is the set of all possible names that it can assign.
In principle, the NAA's name space is infinite, but usually the desire
for relatively short strings of easily transcribable (e.g., visible)
characters limits the practical size of the NAA's name space.

| Intended Use of NAANs

NAANs are intended to be persistent numerical labels that identify
recognized cultural memory organizations.  Each NAAN is associated with
one such organization.  These include national libraries, national
archives, governmental agencies, and patent offices, as well as
institutions of higher education (colleges, universities) and their
affiliated learned societies, scholarly publishers, libraries, and
museums.  Also included are significant information hosting organizations
with whom cultural
memory organizations have contracted for information services.
XXX include final text of this in next versions of ARK and NOID docs
XXX I'd love to have Joan Starr review this

XXX WIPO fits under "patent office"
XXX other UN offices would count as "world government"
XXX DOES ithaka/portico fit under scholarly publishing/archive service?
XXX DOES Internet Archive fit under nationally funded archive service?
XXX WOULD Prelinger Library be able to clear this policy?
XXX WOULD Google fit under significant contract?
XXX WOULD Microsoft fit under significant contract?
XXX WOULD corporate libraries fit?  (yes, cultural memory)
XXX is anyone excluded that we wouldn't want to exclude?
XXX change? regisrations for RUL/NYUL/UNTL to RU/NYU/UNT? or did I already 
	have that conversation with some of them?
XXX review registration for Gotheborg Sweden -- what category allows it?
XXX how about YouTube and Flickr?
XXXX add criterion of non-partisan, non-political??

NAANs may be used by themselves or embedded in other identifiers, where
they are envisioned to assist the creation of globablly unique names
suitable for long-term persistent maintenance.  Typically such a NAAN
would appear in front of names (near the beginning or as part of a prefix)
that the NAA assigns to objects.  Because the NAAN is globally unique,
prepending it to a unique string that the NAA maintains within its name
space will result in a globally unique object name.  While a NAAN may be
used within any naming scheme (e.g., in file naming conventions).
A NAAN is required in the [ARK] scheme.

[ XXX cannot mention n2r scheme yet, as it is too new; n2r is inspired
loosely by the i2r, i2l, i2n mappings listed in RFCxxx (Mealling) ]


| Responsibilities of an NAA

xxx Successor org must be careful not to re-assign names from predecessor

As one part of a persistent naming strategy, the NAAN is responsible for
the careful stewardship

For persistent names (never to be re-assigned once assigned), each NAA
usually sets aside one or more name subspaces, which are non-overlapping
subsets of its name space.

As steward over these non-renewable names, the NAA will normally desire
a conservative assigning strategy given the multiple people and
departments that may both simultaneously and in succession (perhaps
far into the future) assign names.  In order to prevent
name collisions (two people assigning the same name) and to prevent the
name space from becoming hard to manage, the NAA
track of things

the first thing that an NAA does is to set aside a name
subspace, a defined portion of its name space, from which to assign
names.  In order to simplify

Each registered NAA has an administrator.  For example, a university
registrant might have an administrator that rotates every 5 years
between the university's library, its press, and its records office
(xxx its public relations office -- what's UCB's dept called?).

Each NAA is the "owner" for the namespace of the registrant, and should
create a deliberate approach to partitioning its name space (ie, the set
of all possible names that might assign) into name subspaces from
which assignments can be rationed out over time.  This plan would
normally be designed to make it easy for the current and successor
administrators to with the conservatism appropriate for non-renewable
resources.

The NAA determines what kinds of objects it names,
whether they be digital, physical, abstract, etc.


made public, by successor.
.  In particular,
each registrant should consider partitioning its namespace and
carefully 
set aside parts of their namespace
The registrant


Examples:
institutions of higher education
	(administered by their libraries, museuems, and archives)
national Libraries and archives


see also:  handle/doi policies


XXX writeup draft governance ideas for global resolver and name it






| Mention benefit of opaque names and tradeoffs


